HOLLAND, Michigan - The Perl Foundation announces that it has migrated
Perl 5 to the Git version control system.

Open Source becomes more open as the Perl programming language welcomes
a new generation of programmers by using the Git version control system.

Perl 5 is a high-level, general-purpose, dynamic programming
language. Perl was originally developed by Larry Wall, a linguist working
as a systems administrator for NASA. It was meant to be a general purpose
Unix scripting language to make report processing easier. Many companies
now use Perl 5 extensively; among them are the British Broadcasting
Corporation, Amazon.com, LiveJournal, Ticketmaster, Craigslist and IMDb.

Perl 1.000 was first released on December 18th 1987, 21 years ago today.
The most recent major version of Perl 5 (5.10.0) was released one year
ago today.

Originally, Perl was developed using the Revision Control System (RCS). In
March 1997, Perl moved to using the Perforce Software Configuration
Management System. The Perforce repository was graciously hosted and
maintained, free of charge, by ActiveState. As an open source project,
Perl received a no-cost license for Perforce, which enabled the
development of Perl for the last ten years.

Git is an open source version control system designed to handle very
large projects with speed and efficiency. Started by Linus Torvalds, the
inventor of Linux, in order to handle the vast number of contributions
to the Linux Kernel, Git is highly flexible and extensible. Perl's motto,
"There's More Than One Way To Do It!" perfectly matches the Git workflow.

Perforce provided the core developers with powerful tools, but these
tools were not available to users outside the core team. The migration
to Git will open Perl 5 development up to the widest audience of
possible contributors by removing any barriers to access. Git provides
an integrated repository browser and can be accessed over a number of
different protocols.

The Perl Git repository includes every version of Perl 5 ever released,
as well as every revision ever made during development. With a public
repository and Git's extensive support for distributed and offline
work, working on Perl's source becomes easier for everyone involved.
Core committers have less administrative work to do, developers outside
the core team can easily work on experimental branches, and a vast array
of improved repository analysis tools are now available.

The Perl 5 Git repository is located at http://perl5.git.perl.org/perl.git

The hardware behind this URL and the systems administration time to
maintain it is donated by Booking.com. Booking.com has also recently
donated $50,000 to The Perl Foundation, to aid in the further development
and maintenance of the Perl programming language in general, and Perl
5.10 in particular.

Nicholas Clark, the manager for Perl 5.8.9 which was released this week
said "I'm looking forward to to Git giving me the ability to work either
online or offline. Perforce is great when I have a network connection,
but until now those times when I've been trying to develop on trains
or planes, at stations or airports, I'm back in the 'dark ages' before
version control. Git solves this problem and more".

The conversion was done by Sam Vilain both in his spare time and time
donated by his employer, Catalyst IT. He spent over a year writing the
custom tools to transform the complicated Perforce history and merge in
all of the historical versions of Perl from the past 21 years in order
produce the first ever unified repository of every single change to Perl.

About ActiveState (http://www.activestate.com/) | ActiveState
creates professional software development tools, programming language
distributions, and business solutions for dynamic languages, and practical
tools and applications for social networking platforms. ActiveState solves
complex problems and produces cool and useful applications that help
people live more productive and enjoyable lives. ActiveState technology
"just works." ActiveState is owned by its employees and Pender Financial
Group, a publicly traded investment company focused on technology in
British Columbia.

About Booking.com (http://www.booking.com/) | Booking.com is part of
Priceline.com (Nasdaq: PCLN). Its website attracts an average of 30
million unique visitors each month. Booking.com works with more than
57,000 affiliated hotels in 15,000 destinations around the world. Its
services are available in 21 languages. Booking.com currently has 24
offices in Amsterdam, Athens, Barcelona, Berlin, Cambridge, Cape Town,
Dubai, Dublin, London, Loulé (Portugal), Lyon, Madrid, Moscow, Munich,
New York, Orlando, Paris, Rome, San Francisco, Sydney, Singapore,
Stockholm, Vienna and Warsaw.

About Catalyst IT (NZ) Ltd (http://www.catalyst.net.nz/) | Catalyst IT
is New Zealand's premiere Open Source development house.  Catalyst looks
after the development requirements for the NZ Electoral Enrolment Centre,
manage the .NZ registry, the largest NZ newspaper's online presence,
the NZ TAB and many other exciting projects, and are organising the 2010
Australasian Linux Conference to be held in Wellington, New Zealand.

About The Perl Foundation (http://www.perlfoundation.org/) | The Perl
Foundation is dedicated to the advancement of the Perl programming
language through open discussion, collaboration, design, and code. The
Perl Foundation coordinates the efforts of numerous grass-roots Perl-based
groups, including: International Yet Another Perl Conferences (YAPC's),
Carries the legal responsibility for Perl 5 and Perl 6 and the Artistic
and Artistic 2.0 licenses, perl.org, Perl Mongers, and PerlMonks.

